The Quranic Anti Depressant

Tough times come in the life of every human being, young or old, rich or poor, king or slave. And tough times more often than not are important in life 
in making us who we are. In fact tough times and dealing with them is one of the ways in which our true nature comes. A really “nice” person might show 
their complete impatience, displeasure at the will of Allah etc. during bad times. Whereas a not so nice person might actually turn towards Allah in times 
of need, and that brings about a change in his life and he becomes among the pious.

 

In recent times, depression and sadness has been rife in the Earth. We have more than ever before but we are more depressed than ever before, anti-depressants 
are fast becoming the most prescribed drug, suicide is high and morality has gone to an all-time low. The Messenger used to say, “The best speech is the speech 
of Allah, and the best of guidance is the guidance of Muhammad” peace and blessings be upon him. A depressed man, a sad man, a grieved man requires more the 
nurturing and caring of a well-wishing soul than the pill that alievates him for some time. Who better to speak to you to calm you down then Allah? And which 
better way but the way of the Messenger? No human being suffered more than him, and it was at one of the saddest points of his life that Allah revealed Surah Duha.
The Messenger has just started giving the message to his people who were mocking and making fun of him. At that time revelation stopped for 6 months and their 
mockery and slandering just increased as they said things like, “no revelation today?”, “your Lord surely hates you now” etc. etc. So often do we not feel that 
Allah really hates us? He must hate us for all the pain we get, isn’t it? No, the answer comes!

 

Wad Duhaa!! By the morning brightness!

 

Your life was all hustle bustle like the morning brightness! It was bright and sunny before, don’t worry it still is today! Wake up, look at the sunshine, look at 
life around you, it’s not all doom and gloom

 

Wal layli idhaa sajaa’.   And by the night when it grows still

 

Yes, a depressed life is like the stillness of the night, nothing moves, nothing seems to be going forward. But what comes after the stillness of the night? It is 
the bright morning! It was a bright morning only hours earlier, and another bright morning is coming! Its ok, don’t worry, good times are ahead. And the night is a 
time for sleeping, so much sleeping problems for those who are depressed isn’t it? Get some sleep

 

Maa wadda aka wa maa qalaa! Your Master has not said goodbye to you nor does He hate!

 

Your Master has not even said goodbye don’t worry! Wadda’a in Arabic is a loving goodbye. Your Master has not even LOVINGLY said goodbye to you and doesn’t “hate”. 
He doesn’t hate you, do not worry. Still not impressed, look at how Allah gives you evidence that He doesn’t hate you or that He hasn’t said goodbye to you

 

Wa lal aakhiratu khairul laka minal oolaa! And the future will be better for you than the past

 

First of all, look forward. After bad times comes good, and after pain comes ease. And if not, then the believer knows that the future after death comes paradise. 
Yes, it’s painful but just hold on, the future is better!

 

Wa la sawfa yu’tika fataradaa! Your Master will give you so much that you will be pleased

 

Don’t worry, be patient. A time is coming that Allah will give you so much that you will be pleased. For many of us in this world, if not then at least in the 
hereafter in sha Allah! Imagine all that you wanted. Your wildest dreams that you know will never come true, Allah will make them all come true in paradise. 
You still need proof right?

 

Alam yajidika yateeman fa aawaa! Did he not find you an orphan and shelter you?

 

For many of you it is directly it. You were orphaned once upon a time, either you lost your father or both father and mother. But didn’t Allah help you out of it? 
Aren’t you better now? What about us with both parents? Were we not helpless and small babies, and didn’t Allah give us parents as a shelter? Or maybe uncles and 
aunties? Or brothers and sisters? Did Allah not give us a shelter?

 

Wawa jadaka daallan fahada. And He found you lost(or searching) and guided you

 

Were we not lost and wandering in the ocean of misguidance once and Allah guided us? Were we not searching for happiness everywhere (some of us still might be) 
whereas it was in the guidance of Allah? Ask Allah to guide you through man. Look what He did for you before, is He really going to forsake and bid you goodbye?

 

Wawa jadaka a'aailan fa aghnaa. And He found you in need and satisfied your need?

 

How many a times in our life have we needed something and it was satisfied by Allah? We needed parents to take care of us and Allah gave that to us. We needed food 
and Allah created the world in such a way that we can extract food. We needed help and Allah created someone to help us. We needed and He satisfied? Are you yet not
convinced that Allah is going to help? If you are, now time to take action. What do you do?

 

Fa ammal yateema fala takhar! So do not be harsh with the orphan Wa ammas saa ila falaa tanhar And do not turn away the one who asks for help

 

In short, get active in the community. Help those who are in a worse condition than you are. That will humble your heart, take your mind off your own problems as 
you focus on others’. It will make you a stronger man and you will also be reminded of the bounties of God in your life and you will thus be grateful. Did I say 
grateful?

 

Wa amma bi ni’mati rabbika fahaddith talk about the blessings of your Master

 

Any of those people writing books on “being happy” or on “positive thinking” will tell you to look at the good side of life. This is exactly what Allah prescribes,
just that He had done it 1400 years before today in the Quran and also in previous scriptures. Talk about the blessings Allah has given you. You have whined and 
complained enough. Now talk about how much he has given you and thank Him for it. When was the last time we thanked Him for our eyes? For the good skin? For not 
having a stomach ulcer? For the immune system? Talk about the blessings of your Master, therein is peace.

[Originally written by br. Raiiq Ridwan ]
