Bismillaahir Rahmaanir Raheem
 ﻿
Tabaarakal lazee biyadihil mulku wa huwa 'alaa kulli shai-in qadeer

Allazee khalaqal mawta walhayaata liyabluwakum ayyukum ahsanu 'amalaa; wa huwal 'azeezul ghafoor

Allazee khalaqa sab'a samaawaatin tibaaqam maa taraa fee khalqir rahmaani min tafaawut farji'il basara hal taraa min futoor

Summar ji'il basara karrataini yanqalib ilaikal basaru khaasi'anw wa huwa haseer

Wa laqad zaiyannas samaaa'ad dunyaa bimasaa beeha wa ja'alnaahaa rujoomal lish shayaateeni wa a'tadnaa lahum 'azaabas sa'eer

Wa lillazeena kafaroo bi rabbihim 'azaabu jahannama wa bi'sal maseer

Izaaa ulqoo feehaa sami'oo lahaa shaheeqanw wa hiya tafoor

Takaadu tamayyazu minal ghaizz kullamaaa ulqiya feehaa fawjun sa alahum khazanatuhaaa alam ya'tikum nazeer

Qaaloo balaa qad jaaa'anaa nazeerun fakazzabnaa wa qulnaa maa nazzalal laahu min shai in in antum illaa fee dalaalin kabeer

Wa qaaloo law kunnaa nasma'u awna'qilu maa kunnaa feee as haabis sa'eer

Fa'tarafoo bizambihim fasuhqal li as haabis sa'eer

Innal lazeena yakhshawna rabbahum bilghaibi lahum maghfiratunw wa ajrun kabeer

Wa asirroo qawlakum awijharoo bih; innahoo 'aleemum bizaatis sudoor

Alaa ya'lamu man khalaqa wa huwal lateeful khabeer

Huwal lazee ja'ala lakumul arda zaloolan famshoo fee manaakibihaa wa kuloo mir rizqih; wa ilaihin nushoor

'A-amintum man fissamaaa'i aiyakhsifa bi kumul arda fa izaa hiya tamoor

Am amintum man fissamaaa'i ai yursila 'alaikum haasiban fasata'lamoona kaifa nazeer

Wa laqad kazzabal lazeena min qablihim fakaifa kaana nakeer

Awalam yaraw ilat tairi fawqahum saaaffaatinw wa yaqbidn; maa yumsikuhunna il'lar rahmaan; innahoo bikulli shai in baseer

Amman haazal lazee huwa jundul lakum yansurukum min doonir rahmaan; inilkaafiroona illaa fee ghuroor

Amman haazal lazee yarzuqukum in amsaka rizqah; bal lajjoo fee 'utuwwinw wa nufoor

Afamai yamshee mukibban 'alaa wajhihee ahdaaa ammany yamshee sawiyyan 'alaa siratim mustaqeem

Qul huwal lazee ansha akum wa ja'ala lakumus sam'a wal absaara wal af'idata qaleelam maa tashkuroon

Qul huwal lazee zara akum fil ardi wa ilaihi tuhsharoon

Wa yaqooloona mataa haazal wa'du in kuntum saadiqeen

Qul innamal 'ilmu 'indallaahi wa innamaaa ana nazeerum mubeen

Falammaa ra-awhu zulfatan seee'at wujoohul lazeena kafaroo wa qeela haazal lazee kuntum bihee tadda'oon

Qul ara'aytum in ahlaka niyal laahu wa mam ma'iya aw rahimanaa famai-yujeerul kaafireena min 'azaabin aleem

Qul huwar rahmaanu aamannaa bihee wa 'alaihi tawakkalnaa fasata'lamoona man huwa fee dalaalim mubeen

Qul ara'aytum in asbaha maaa'ukum ghawran famai ya'teekum bimaaa'im ma'een

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

In the name of Allah, Most Gracious, Most Merciful.

Blessed be He in Whose hands is Dominion; and He over all things hath Power;-

He Who created Death and Life, that He may try which of you is best in deed: and He is the Exalted in Might, Oft-Forgiving;-

He Who created the seven heavens one above another: No want of proportion wilt thou see in the Creation of (Allah) Most Gracious. So turn thy vision again: seest thou any flaw?

Again turn thy vision a second time: (thy) vision will come back to thee dull and discomfited, in a state worn out.

And we have, (from of old), adorned the lowest heaven with Lamps, and We have made such (Lamps) (as) missiles to drive away the Evil Ones, and have prepared for them the Penalty of the Blazing Fire.

For those who reject their Lord (and Cherisher) is the Penalty of Hell: and evil is (such), Destination.

When they are cast therein, they will hear the (terrible) drawing in of its breath even as it blazes forth,

Almost bursting with fury: Every time a Group is cast therein, its Keepers will ask, "Did no Warner come to you?"

They will say: "Yes indeed; a Warner did come to us, but we rejected him and said,  Allah never sent down any (Message): ye are nothing but an egregious delusion! "

They will further say: "Had we but listened or used our intelligence, we should not (now) be among the Companions of the Blazing Fire!"

They will then confess their sins: but far will be (Forgiveness) from the Companions of the Blazing Fire!

As for those who fear their Lord unseen, for them is Forgiveness and a great Reward.

And whether ye hide your word or publish it, He certainly has (full) knowledge, of the secrets of (all) hearts.

Should He not know,- He that created? and He is the One that understands the finest mysteries (and) is well-acquainted (with them).

It is He Who has made the earth manageable for you, so traverse ye through its tracts and enjoy of the Sustenance which He furnishes: but unto Him is the Resurrection.

Do ye feel secure that He Who is in heaven will not cause you to be swallowed up by the earth when it shakes (as in an earthquake)?

Or do ye feel secure that He Who is in Heaven will not send against you a violent tornado (with showers of stones), so that ye shall know how (terrible) was My warning?

But indeed men before them rejected (My warning): then how (terrible) was My rejection (of them)?

Do they not observe the birds above them, spreading their wings and folding them in? None can uphold them except (Allah) Most Gracious: Truly (Allah) Most Gracious: Truly it is He that watches over all things.

Nay, who is there that can help you, (even as) an army, besides (Allah) Most Merciful? In nothing but delusion are the Unbelievers.

Or who is there that can provide you with Sustenance if He were to withhold His provision? Nay, they obstinately persist in insolent impiety and flight (from the Truth).

Is then one who walks headlong, with his face grovelling, better guided,- or one who walks evenly on a Straight Way?

Say: "It is He Who has created you (and made you grow), and made for you the faculties of hearing, seeing, feeling and understanding: little thanks it is ye give.

Say: "It is He Who has multiplied you through the earth, and to Him shall ye be gathered together."

They ask: When will this promise be (fulfilled)? - If ye are telling the truth.

Say: "As to the knowledge of the time, it is with Allah alone: I am (sent) only to warn plainly in public."

At length, when they see it close at hand, grieved will be the faces of the Unbelievers, and it will be said (to them): "This is (the promise fulfilled), which ye were calling for!"

Say: "See ye?- If Allah were to destroy me, and those with me, or if He bestows His Mercy on us,- yet who can deliver the Unbelievers from a grievous Penalty?"

Say: "He is (Allah) Most Gracious: We have believed in Him, and on Him have we put our trust: So, soon will ye know which (of us) it is that is in manifest error."

Say: "See ye?- If your stream be some morning lost (in the underground earth), who then can supply you with clear-flowing water?"